# Introduction

Welcome! This repository contains code examples to support the lecture material
and practical sessions to support the Spring Semester of the COM1001 module
"Introduction to Software Engineering" at the University of Sheffield.

The lecture content of the Spring Semester focuses on Web Application
Development and Testing using [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) and a framework
called [Sinatra](http://sinatrarb.com/). We will be learning
[RSpec](https://rspec.info/) to write tests. We will also be using other
technologies along the way, including
[Capybara](https://teamcapybara.github.io/capybara/) to automatically drive our
web applications for testing; [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) as a backend
database, and [Sequel](https://sequel.jeremyevans.net/) – an Object-Relational
Mapping framework.

### Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    * [Using Codio](#using-codio)
    * [Setting Up Your Own Machine](#setting-up-your-own-machine)
    * [Cloning and Forking this Repository](#cloning-and-forking-the-repository)
* [Compiling and Running Code in the
  Repository](#compiling-and-running-code-in-the-repository)
* [Problems or Feedback](#problems-or-feedback)


# Getting Started

The preferred development platform for this module is
[Codio](https://www.codio.com/), which you will have encountered in the Autumn
Semester. The first lecture of the Spring will show you how to get everything
setup. This lecture is available as a video on (Blackboard[https://vle.shef.ac.uk]).



# Cloning the Repository

To clone the repository you will need to issue the following command:

``git clone git@github.com:philmcminn/com1001-code.git``

# Finally, If You Don't Like Codio!

If you don't like developing with Codio, there are a couple of options available to you.
First, you can develop everything on your own machine. However, this means you
installing Ruby and getting everything working yourself – we are unable to
provide support for students' individual machines. While getting Ruby set up
tends to be relatively easy on Linux on Mac machines, Windows users typically
encounter more problems. Also, do not forget your team members and your project
who may prefer to use Codio, opening up various possibilities for
incompatibilities and problems. Finally, remember that the team project will be
marked using Codio – so everything needs to work there out of the box.

The second option may be more preferable – where you SSH into your Codio box
from your text editor/IDE on your own machine. This gives you the best of both
worlds – the use of your preferred development environment, but with the ease of
Ruby already being set up for you on Codio, and you using the same platform as
everyone else. However, you will need to navigate the instructions for doing
this yourself – again, we are unable to provide assistance. See
https://docs.codio.com/project/ide/boxes/#ssh-and-code-access-ssh-into-your-box
Instructions for your text editor/IDE vary of course, depending on what you're
using – here are some useful pointers for VS Code, for example:
https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/ssh.

Finally VSCode may be used in a web browser on Codio itself. On Codio, go to
"Tools", then "Install Software". Scroll down the list and select "VSCode". 